# FinalProject2022:
This repository summarises the Final Year Project of my BSc at the National College of Ireland. The project topic was "An analysis of the causes and prevention of diabetes". This repository contains; statistical anlaysis of data used during the project, machine learning algorithms and artificial intelligence / Neural Network models used to carry out the analysis of clinical and lifestyle data related to diabetes. The repository also contains the coding scripts, report and poster to help understand the background to the project. 
# Project Aims:
The aims of the project included evaluation of the performance of different model classifiers in helping predict the liklihood of diabetes given certain data. Using statistical analysis to understand the importance of various features and to understand what factors had the most effect on predicting diabetes. The project's research question was; "Given relevant data and the applictaion of classifiers on that data, what is the liklihood of someone being diagnosed as a diabetic?".  
# Datasets:
I collected two different datasets from Kaggle which is an online machine learning community and data repository. The first dataset was based on a US based "BRFSS" survey (a.k.a Diabetes Health Indicators Dataset) which involved collecting lifestyle information etc over the phone. The other was patient clinical data extracted from > 130 US hospitals(a.k.a 10 Years Diabetes Dataset). Using the two datasets, I created four different data subsets. The Diabetes Health Indictaors had three different subsets which were named; Regular Splitting, Down Sample and Smote. The 10 Years Diabetes Dataset had one Regular Splitting subset.
# RStudio:
During the project Data Modelling phase, I had implemented three different classification classifiers in RStudio. Using the following classifiers; Decision Trees, Random Forest and Naive Bayes, I collected a total of 12 different results using the above data subsets. 
# Jupyter Notebooks:
The Neural Network implementations were carried out in Jupyter Notebooks using the Python programming language. The Neural Network models were implemented using python resources from the Keras library. I had also utilised visualisation tools such as Tensorboard for visualising the Neural Network results. Using the subsets created above 4 different sets of results were collected using both datasets; 10 Years Diabetes Dataset and Diabetes Health Indicators Dataset. 
